### GitHub reporitory for 
# Apple genotypes and soil properties shape the soil microbiome and influence the plant response to replant disease-affected soil
### by Kristin Hauschild, Nils Orth, Adriana Giongo, Stefanie Reim, Benye Liu, Max Menssen,  Ludger Beerhues, Henryk Flachowsky, Kornelia Smalla and Traud Winkelmann

## Abstract
Apple replant disease (ARD) is a problem in apple tree and fruit production worldwide and its etiology is not fully understood. This study aimed to evaluate the tolerance of six apple genotypes, including the susceptible rootstock 'M.26', three potentially tolerant rootstocks 'EMR.2', 'G.202' and 'G.935', and two wildtype accessions Malus spectabilis MAL0130 and Malus sargentii MAL0739 in ARD-affected soils of six origins. Using a greenhouse biotest, plants were grown for 56 days in untreated ARD-affected soil or the respective γ-irradiated soil (control). No genotype showed consistent lack of growth reduction in all ARD-affected soils, indicating that no universal tolerance exists within the tested genotypes. Three genotypes ('M.26', MAL0130, MAL0739) were selected for analyses of ARD indicator genes expression and phytoalexin contents in roots as measures of ARD-response. Biphenyl synthase 3 expression and phytoalexin content strongly correlated and highest levels were observed in the roots of susceptible rootstock 'M.26'. MAL0739 showed the lowest response, which was not consistently reflected in improved plant growth across all soils. Analysis of the bacterial and fungal communities in three root-affected ARD soils revealed site- and genotype-specific differences. Bacterial alpha-diversity was higher in MAL0739 compared to 'M.26', while beta-diversity was mainly shaped by site. Significant enrichment of Nectria was observed for 'M.26' grown in one ARD soil. Phytoalexin contents and potentially plant beneficial microbial taxa correlated negatively. Our findings highlight that ARD tolerance in apple genotypes is linked to the soil microbiome and other soil properties, indicating the need for an integrated approach to manage ARD.

## Data
Raw data of shoot FM, root FM, ARD indicator gene expression and phytoalexin measurements can be found at the [BonaRes Repository](https://www.bonares.de/service-portal/data-repository). Unassembled raw sequence data of 16S rRNA gene and ITS amplicon sequencing is available in the NCBI Sequence Read Archive (SRA) under the BioProject [PRJNA1149964](https://dataview.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/object/PRJNA1149964?reviewer=c8fs5db9mqt6b4b57tb72te5gq).

## Funding
This study was funded by the German Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF, Germany) in the framework of the project ORDIAmur (grant number 031B0512) which is part of the BonaRes funding initiative “Soil as a sustainable resource for the bioeconomy”.

